right now I'm in Raleigh North Carolina
I'll be on stage soon and for me is just
another night in an American music venue
this is capitalism 2012
right now I am ensconced in the
backstage area of the Lincoln Theater
what you see filling the frame is very
typical of the environments in which
I've been living spending hours and
hours days months and years in for over
three decades of my life
and what's the role of the music venue
in America it's where people come
together for a sense of community to
rock out to express themselves to make
alliances and to see who their tribe is
to see who else is wearing that shirt to
see what other people who are so
inclined look like what they talk about
and what commonalities they might share
so people come into these places to do
what they wouldn't do at home they come
to be larger than life sometimes to act
out the venues in America are the
pressure escape valves for the
compression of the work place of the
domestic environment the husband wife
boyfriend girlfriend
the roommates it all gets shook up and
the can gets popped on the night and a
gig
another interesting thing about venues
in America is that not only do they have
a life but quite often more often than
not they have a past life or past lives
and some of these places have amazing
traditions when I come from Washington
DC the 930 Club it on 9:30 F Street that
shared the alley with Ford's Theater the
alley you drive down to load in your
gear was the alley that John Wilkes
Booth ran up to escape after killing
Abraham Lincoln
you want to speak for a moment about raw
capitalism the dollars that come to me I
are primarily liquid dollars coming to
see me does not pay your rent coming to
see me is not a bag of groceries this is
an elective you don't need to come to
this show and so I suffer too when the
economy is bad I take a hit
venues take a hit big bands will do 35%
normal business in a bad year when the
economy takes a slight downturn we
performer types and these venues we feel
it like fast and hard and it's it's very
tough out here so you learn to be you're
smart you learn to be grateful for
whatever good comes your way not to be
overly political with any of you I just
know that you're smart and you're
switched on and you're funny and you're
alive and you're thinking it just seems
to me that in this building tonight I
bet there's a not a whole lot of
undecided voters my name's Pat Dickinson
the I own the Lincoln Theatre in Raleigh
North Carolina which is the building
we're in right now and a place that we
just toasted Henry Rollins capitalism
show
it's a light music club used to be a
rollies black movie theater from the
late 30s once we got ahold of it we
decided to bring the name back and
revive it
make it something part of the city tell
me what I was going to do with my
physiology and my anatomy his testicles
would be swinging from my three nerve
you
and again we'll cross paths somewhere
down the line thanks for joining me
good night and that's it for us from
here in Raleigh North Carolina in the
capital city of North Carolina and the
very well named Lincoln Theatre tomorrow
night stop on the capitalism 2012 tour
will be Richmond Virginia
do not stop watching